# Reservoir Management

Water reservoir levels must be carefully controlled to satisfy consumer demand
while maintaining minimum water levels. To satisfy this demand and maintain at
least a minimum level of water in the reservoir, pumps can be operated to
provide water flow into the reservoir. To operate these pumps there is a cost,
and we would like to choose which pumps to use throughout the day in order to
minimize cost.

In this demo scenario, we have seven pumps that can be operated on 1-hour
intervals throughout a 24-hour day.

## Usage

To run the demo, type:

```bash
python demo.py
```

The demo outputs `reservoir.html`, a video of the reservoir water levels for a
problem with seven pumps available, as shown below. This animation can be
displayed in a web browser, or if using the Leap IDE by right-clicking on the
file name and selecting "Open With" -> "Preview".

![Example Solution](readme_imgs/reservoir.gif)

The command-line output displays which pumps are used in each time interval,
using a 0 to indicate that the pump is off and a 1 to indicate that the pump is
on. At the bottom of each time interval column is the water level at the time
so that we may confirm that it is within the allowable ranges. Lastly, the
total flow produced by the pumps over all time intervals and the total cost
over all time intervals is displayed.

## Problem Formulation

### Objective

The general objective for this problem is to minimize cost. Cost is determined
by which pumps are used in each time slot. To compute the cost for a given time
slot, we must take into consideration the amount of power required for the
pumps in use as well as the cost of power at the given time. Power rates
fluctuate at different times of day, meaning that the cost to operate a pump
also varies at different times of day.

### Constraints

This problem consists of three groups of constraints.

1. Each pump must be used at least once.

2. Each time slot must have at least one unused pump as a backup.

3. At each time slot, the water level must be within allowable levels.

For the full mathematical formulation of these constraints, please see the
paper cited in the References section.

## References

Kowalik, Przemys≈Çaw, and Magdalena Rzemieniak. "Binary Linear Programming as a
Tool of Cost Optimization for a Water Supply Operator." Sustainability 13.6
(2021): 3470.
